Add documentation for cloudsql migration (#680)
nais/doc: docs/persistence/postgres/how-to/migrate-to-new-instance.md

---
title: Migrate to new instance
tags: [postgres, migrate, how-to]
---

# Migrating to a new SQLInstance

This guide describes how to migrate your PostgreSQL database to a new [SQLInstance](../explanations/cloud-sql-instance.md).

## Preparations

* During migration, you can't make DDL changes (changing structure of tables, adding or removing tables, etc.) to your database. 
  Check with your team to avoid any problems during the migration.
* Make sure to have the latest version of the [nais CLI](../../../operate/cli/README.md) installed.
* Decide on a new name for the new SQLInstance. It must be different from the current SQLInstance name.
* naisdevice connected.
* Access to the nais cluster where the application is running.

## Setting up the migration

1. Select the correct kubernetes context and namespace

   ```shell
   kubectl config use-context <cluster>
   kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<namespace>
   ```

2. Run the [setup](../../../operate/cli/reference/postgres.md#migrate-setup) command and follow the prompts
    
    ```shell
    nais migrate postgres setup <appname> <new-sql-instance-name>
    ```

> 3. Check that the new instance contains expected data

Reviewer: How do we check that the new instance contains expected data?
What data are we expecting?

Reviewer 2: Maybe
```suggestion
3. Check that the new instance contains the data you expect (AKA same as old instance)
```

Author: Ga opp å forklare hvordan man gjør dette, så tok det vekk :sweat_smile:
